Now that we've discussed
the structure of
a network and how
communications takes place,
it's important for
you to know how
the security
professionals identify
problems that might arise.
The TCP/IP model is a
framework that is used to
visualize how data is
organized and transmitted
across the network.
The TCP/IP model
has four layers.
The four layers are: the
network access layer,
the internet layer,
the transport layer,
and the application layer.
Knowing how the TCP/IP model
organizes network activity
allows security professionals to
monitor and secure
against risks.
Let's examine these
layers one at a time.
Layer one is the
network access layer.
The network access layer
deals with creation of
data packets and their
transmission across a network.
This includes hardware
devices connected to
physical cables and switches
that direct data
to its destination.
Layer two is the internet layer.
The internet layer is where
IP addresses are attached to
data packets to indicate
the location of the
sender and receiver.
The internet layer also focuses
on how networks
connect to each other.
For example, data packets
containing information
that determine whether
they will stay on the
LAN or will be sent
to a remote network,
like the internet.
The transport layer
includes protocols to
control the flow of
traffic across a network.
These protocols permit or
deny communication with
other devices and include
information about the
status of the connection.
Activities of this layer
include error control,
which ensures data is flowing
smoothly across the network.
Finally, at the
application layer,
protocols determine
how the data packets
will interact with
receiving devices.
Functions that are organized
at application layer
include file transfers
and email services.
Now you have an understanding of
the TCP/IP model and its
four layers. Meet you
in the next video.